<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="screenlocker" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Screen Locking</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>
<!--FIXME code in workspace/kscreenlocker - docbook in workspace/plasma-desktop -->
<date>2016-09-19</date>
<releaseinfo>Plasma 5.8</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>screenlocker</keyword>
<keyword>screen locker</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>
<!--https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=317156 does this effect screenlock in kf5?-->
<para>Using this module, you can determine
how much time must pass before the screen locker is activated, and add
or remove password protection to your screen locker.</para>

<para>At the top is a check box to have the screen locker <guilabel>Lock screen automatically after</guilabel>, 
and a spin box which determines the period of inactivity before the screen locker should be started. 
You can enter any positive number of minutes in this box.</para>

<para>Below that is a spinbox labeled <guilabel>Require password 
after locking</guilabel>.  When you press a key
or click a mouse button to end the screen locker after the time in the spinbox and return to your
work, you must enter a password.  The password used is the same
password you used to login to your machine. <!--FIXME --></para>

<para>Locking the screen manually causes the password protection to engage immediately.</para>

<para>The default shortcut <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;<keycap>L</keycap></keycombo> provides a quick 
way to lock the screen manually.</para>

<para>Check <guilabel>Lock screen on resume</guilabel> if you want a password protected system
when waking up from suspension.</para>

<para>If you would like to change the background in locked status switch to the <guilabel>Wallpaper</guilabel> tab.</para>

<para>You can select a <guilabel>Plain Color</guilabel> as wallpaper type.</para>

<para>Alternatively use a single image or a slideshow with images from a folder
or load new wallpapers from the Internet.</para>

</article>
