<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="kcmstyle" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<title>Application Style</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2021-04-09</date>
<releaseinfo>Plasma 5.20</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>System Settings</keyword>
<keyword>style</keyword>
<keyword>application</keyword>
<keyword>widgets</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<para>This module is used to configure how the individual widgets are
drawn by &plasma;.</para>

<note><para>A <emphasis>Widget</emphasis> is a commonly-used
programmer's term for referring to User Interface elements such as
buttons, menus, and scroll bars.  You can think of them as the
fundamental pieces that are assembled to make your
application.</para></note>

<para>You can configure how the widgets are drawn with this module,
but to change the color of the widgets, you should refer to the
section entitled <ulink
url="help:/kcontrol/colors/index.html">Colors</ulink>.</para>

<para>The top grid, labeled <guilabel>Application Style</guilabel> 
contains a list of the previews of the pre-defined styles.
Each style has a name, and a brief description is shown when you
hover its item with the mouse pointer.</para>

<para>If you want to configure a &plasma; theme, use the <guilabel>Configure Style...</guilabel> overlay
icon at the bottom right of the widget style icon in the grid.</para>

<para>If implemented, it is possible to change almost every aspect of the style: center tabbar tabs, draw toolbar item separators, draw focus indicator in lists, draw slider tick marks, enable extended resize handlers, define keyboard accelerators visibility, windows' drag mode, use frames for the better accessibility, use buttons on the scrollbars, use transparency in the menus.</para>

<para>The general configuration can be made by pressing the <guibutton>Configure Icons and Toolbars</guibutton> button below the grid. This button opens a pane to select further settings.</para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry> 
<term><guilabel>Show icons: On buttons</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If this option is selected, action buttons (like <guibutton>OK</guibutton> and 
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton>) will have a small icon located within them to act
as a visual reference.  If this option is not selected, then only text
will appear on the button.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry> 
<term><guilabel>Show icons: In menus</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If this option is selected, &kde; applications will show small icons alongside 
most menu items.  If this option is not selected, then only text
will appear in the menus. Changes to the visibility of menu icons will only affect newly started 
applications.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry> 
<term><guilabel>Main toolbar label</guilabel>, <guilabel>Secondary toolbar label</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>These drop down boxes let you determine where on the button in both toolbars the 
text name of the button will appear as the default.  
If <guilabel>None</guilabel> is selected, then there is no text on the toolbar buttons.  
If  <guilabel>Text only</guilabel> is selected, then the button's icon is replaced with a text name of 
the button. If <guilabel>Beside icons</guilabel> is selected, then the name of the button 
will be placed to the <emphasis>right</emphasis> of the icon. 
If <guilabel>Below icon</guilabel> is selected, the default will be to have the text 
of the button <emphasis>below</emphasis> the icon.</para>

<tip><para>These options only specify the <emphasis>default</emphasis> location.  
Each application can override the settings used in this panel.</para></tip>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 

</variablelist>

<para>The <guibutton>Configure GNOME/GTK Application Style...</guibutton> button can be used to open the configuration tab where you can choose <guilabel>GTK theme</guilabel>, install GTK theme from file or <guibutton>Get New GNOME/GTK Application Styles</guibutton> from the Internet.
</para>

</article>
